README.md, before:

bmc-sdr-status
==============
A monitoring solution for Ampere Altra BMC sensor status on Docker with [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/), [Grafana](http://grafana.org/),  and [Telegraf](https://www.influxdata.com/time-series-platform/telegraf/).

Also thank [dockprom](https://github.com/stefanprodan/dockprom) inspire me to build this script

## Download

Clone bmc-sdr-status from github 
```bash
git clone https://github.com/richliu/bmc-sdr-status.git
cd bmc-sdr-status
```

## Build Docker Image

Install docker first on your Linux platform, for example, ubuntu 
```bash
sudo snap install docker
```

Original telegraf docker images doesn't have ipmitool package, it needs to build docker image to add it on your machine, so, next step is to build telegraf docker image by yourself. 
```bash
bash build-telegraf.sh
```

It will download latest telegraf docker image and build it. 

## Configure Ampere Altra BMC Server

Modify file bmc-sdr-status/telegraf/telegraf.conf, and section ```[[inputs.ipmi_sensor]]```

There are two pre-configure server, ADMIN:ADMIN is your BMC web/ipmi login username and password, please modify it according to your environment
```
servers = ["ADMIN:ADMIN@lan(192.168.110.234)", "ADMIN:ADMIN@lan(192.168.3.157)" ]
```
## Run Services

In directory bmc-sdr-status, run command below
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

## Setup Garfarna 
Navigate to `http://<host-ip>:3000` and login with user ***admin*** password ***admin***. This script doesn't provide proxy function like dockprom does.

Grafana is preconfigured with dashboards and Prometheus as the default data source:

* Name: Prometheus
* Type: Prometheus
* Url: http://prometheus:9090
* Access: Server
  
## Screenshot 
![screenshot](https://github.com/richliu/bmc-sdr-status/raw/main/screens/Ampere_Altra_Bmc.png)

Commit message:

add "Clear Prometheus Data Base" to README
Signed-off-by: Richard Liu <richliu@techarea.org>

README.md, after:

bmc-sdr-status
==============
A monitoring solution for Ampere Altra BMC sensor status on Docker with [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/), [Grafana](http://grafana.org/),  and [Telegraf](https://www.influxdata.com/time-series-platform/telegraf/).

Also thank [dockprom](https://github.com/stefanprodan/dockprom) inspire me to build this script

## Download

Clone bmc-sdr-status from github 
```bash
git clone https://github.com/richliu/bmc-sdr-status.git
cd bmc-sdr-status
```

## Build Docker Image

Install docker first on your Linux platform, for example, ubuntu 
```bash
sudo snap install docker
```

Original telegraf docker images doesn't have ipmitool package, it needs to build docker image to add it on your machine, so, next step is to build telegraf docker image by yourself. 
```bash
bash build-telegraf.sh
```

It will download latest telegraf docker image and build it. 

## Configure Ampere Altra BMC Server

Modify file bmc-sdr-status/telegraf/telegraf.conf, and section ```[[inputs.ipmi_sensor]]```

There are two pre-configure server, ADMIN:ADMIN is your BMC web/ipmi login username and password, please modify it according to your environment
```
servers = ["ADMIN:ADMIN@lan(192.168.110.234)", "ADMIN:ADMIN@lan(192.168.3.157)" ]
```
## Run Services

In directory bmc-sdr-status, run command below
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

## Setup Garfarna 
Navigate to `http://<host-ip>:3000` and login with user ***admin*** password ***admin***. This script doesn't provide proxy function like dockprom does.

Grafana is preconfigured with dashboards and Prometheus as the default data source:

* Name: Prometheus
* Type: Prometheus
* Url: http://prometheus:9090
* Access: Server

## Clear Prometheus Data Base 

If you change parameter and run script several times, grafana will fetch the same data twice from different host. All prometheus data base store in docker volume. 
So, suggest to clear prometheus data base before run it. Run command below to clear promethrus docker volume. 
```bash 
docker volume rm bmc-sdr-status_prometheus_data
```


## Screenshot 
![screenshot](https://github.com/richliu/bmc-sdr-status/raw/main/screens/Ampere_Altra_Bmc.png)
